Rico Alzaga Q&A


Physical Aspect:


Q: What is your defined height?
A: I am 174 in cm.


Q: What is your eye color?
A: My eye color is dark brown.


Q: Whats the current weight?
A: I weight around 65 kilograms.


Q: What is your hair color?
A: My hair color is dark brown but has a portion of white hair.


Q: What is your body type?
A: I am neither fat nor thin, but mainly a bit slim.


Q: What is your skin color?
A: Well, ever since I was a kid, I have always been the ‘Moreno’ guy.




Personal Background:

Q: Where do you live?
A: I am currently residing at a province called Albay and is located on Legazpi City.

Q: How many siblings do you have?
A: We are 8 boys and 3 girls in our family so I have 10 siblings in total.

Q: Are you single?
A: I am in a relationship with the girl that I love, and her name is May.

Q: Whats your nationality?
A: I am a natural-born and proud Filipino and I love our motherland.

Q: when is your birthdate?
A: My birthdate is April 21, 1998.



Trivia:


Q: Do you like sports?
A: Yes I do, I really enjoy physical activities, it’s one thing reminding me to feel alive.


Q: What is your favorite weather?
A: I like it when it's cloudy and windy.


Q: What is your favorite color?
A: I always like the color of cream brown.


Q: How do you deal with stress?
A: I always like to think about the stressor over and over and see if I can do anything about it and if so, I would do anything for it.


Q: Do you like challenges?
A: Yes, I always want to test myself and always aim to improve. I aim to always be better than yesterday's self.


Q: What is the one thing you consider your innermost strength as a being?
A: Being adaptive, I always think and am thankful that I tend to be more adaptive than the one who just complains.


Q: What is your favorite genre of music?
A: My favorite genre of music is retro pop.


Q: Do you like talking in front of thousands of people?
A: No, I find it hard to speak in front of many people but manageable only in a few audience. It is one of my weaknesses and I want to work it out.


Q: Are you a night person or a morning person?
A: When I was a kid, I used to be a morning person but as soon as the pandemic occurred, I found peace at night time and eventually became a night person.


Q: What is the one thing you consider your innermost weakness as a being?
A: Being nonchalant, I hate it when I can't help myself being effective and expressive emotions especially in needed times.


Q: What do you do in your free time?
A: I sometimes just check anything on the internet, either educational, or entertainment. For educational content related to my field of interest such as technology, mathematics, science etc. And for entertainment should be watching combat sports or horror contents.


Q: Are you a brave man?
A: Yes, and I always consider risk when becoming brave, it’s about being brave with a brain.


Q: What do you like in a person?
A: In general, I always admire people that are humble and good, that pursue to make this world a better place even just a bit.


Q: What do you hate in a person?
A: When they keep or make it a hobby to just lie, even within themselves. They don’t have the courage to face the truth and present lies instead to shelter them. I say be brave and take those chances to make yourself better and aim to be better to make the world we are living in a little better than yesterday.


Q: What do you think is an aspect of you that is notable from other’s perspective?
A: I present myself publicly most of the time as not talkative and serious but when fun times come, can be a rather super funny person.


Q: If I was given a chance to play a profession other than my current one, what would it be?
A: It would be a spy, since spy is super fun and effective just by observing the surroundings and talk only when needed


Q: Do you like to hold a grudge against someone?
A: No, I don't like to hold a grudge onto someone as I am a peaceful person.


Q: Are you a listener?
A: I always put consideration on other's perspective before considering my action so I say yes, I listen to the words as well as to the unsaid words through observations.


Q: Do you emphasize limitations?
A: Yes, most of my intuition should be subject to realism.


Q: How do you approach things no matter how bad or good it is?
A: As much as I can, I always want to remain calm, gentle and compose all the time, I can make better decisions once I am calm.


Q: How are you around with the people you are comfortable with?
A: Being around with my people, I always make funny jokes. I feel joy and expressed.


Q: Who is your favorite anime character?
A: There's no exact favorite one but the are some that generalizes it, the character of Grimjoww from Bleach, Sukuna from JJk, and Garo from OPM.


Q: Can you play music?
A: Yes, I do play guitar and a little knowledge with Piano?


Q: Do you like pets?
A: Yes I do, and I want my own pet dog in the future.




Academic Background:


Q: Where did you complete your college?
A: I graduated from Bicol University with a bachelor's degree in Computer Science last July 2022 with a general weight average of 1.9070.


Q: Where did your primary school take place?
A: I enrolled in Buraguis Elementary School from Grade 2 until Grade 6 and my attended school during Grade 1 was at Reyes Laboratory School.


Q: What is your favorite subject?
A: During primary and secondary school, I expressed great interest in Sciences and Mathematics and during college, Calculus has really been my interest. 


Q: Did you attend the K-12 program?
A: Yes, we are the first batch of K-12 program and we are adhered to take the program and so I took a course in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) at Oro Site High School.


Q: Who are your favorite advisors/teachers?
A: During my high school, Ms. Arietta has been giving me credits for how much I expressed interest in the Mathematics field in general and I acknowledge her being a great teacher. And for my college, Mr. Miranda has been great when it comes to teaching Calculus and he is detail oriented especially for getting to know students who does not want to take part on the learning procedures in the subject as well as to those students who might excel in the field and giving them extra effort, helping them unlock the full possible potential and interest of students along Calculus.


Q: What was your dream course?
A: In my early years of academics, I dream of becoming a dentist. But later in high school, I had options between taking an Architecture/Engineering program or Computer-related program.
And nevertheless, decided to scrap those ideas because of observed major factors and just focused on the updated dream course that is Computer Science.


Q: What is your dream field of interest?
A: I was always intrigue with the human way of thinking, and with that I am in great interest with the field of AI.



Professional Experience:


Q: What was your recent job?
A: I joined Samsung Electronics Phil Corp subsidiary which is the Samsung Research Institute Philippines way back October 3 2022 up until July 9, 2024 and was assigned as Data Scientist.


Q: What were your notable achievements in your recent job?
A: I contributed to the project effectively resulting in our project CSI rating improvement and tasks I performed were mainly ETL optimization, EDA, dashboarding, feature engineering, and reporting and discussion with our stakeholders.


Q: What are your top 3 tools and how would you rate them (1-10)?
A: My top 3 tools are SQL (9.1/10), Python (8.9/10), and Power BI (8.3/10).


Q: Do you participate in code review?
A: Yes I do, it is one way to get to know your team’s capability as well as interact with their work/part.


Q: What are your key takeaways as per working from your recent company?
A: I am actually glad I get to know and meet few but really cool people inside the company, they are really helpful and considerate in my career development. It's the one thing I will be remembering when it comes to mentioning the company name.

